is up everybody welcome to another
edition of the Amma series AMA as chase
would prefer me to say it I believe it
can be said either way nonetheless I'm
so excited to have you guys here and we
have our grand prize winner to announce
from the refer friend contest it is none
other than sim land and if you guys
wanted to know if we were for real if
we'd fly anybody from anywhere this
[__] is from Estonia so we're
gonna bring him in it is gonna be
amazing very excited to meet you sim
thank you so much for participating we
have two runners-up David Kim and a Yan
said I an said man those two by the way
had a ton of submissions and the way
that these were picked it is at random
but it's weighted based on the number of
submissions that you had so it wasn't
actually a hat but it was a digital
version of a hat that every time that
you had an another person submit your
name that you had an increased
probability of winning so there you have
it I'm very excited to our prize winners
please stay tuned for additional
communications from our boy Sean Z aka
Sean Joseph on next steps oh he'll reach
out to all you guys and just super super
grateful to everybody that entered the
contest had your friends come and
subscribe submit your name amazing
amazing amazing so thank you guys so
much all right first question up is from
the connect inbox all right connecting
box in the house today
this is from cui Shu how would you hold
yourself to a high standard without
being mean to yourself when I failed to
do what I plan to do I tend to beat
myself up or label myself I don't think
this is an effective strategy what would
be an effective strategy for this case
so first of all I do think that beating
yourself up is actually a good strategy
it's when you do it obsessively and you
hold on to it that it becomes a problem
so it's not that doing it a little bit
is an issue I do that a lot I am I am in
fact one that has been on my mind lately
so I really want to get a Nike shoe I
want it to be the first entrepreneur to
get a Nike shoe and I guess I still have
that shot but Gary Vaynerchuk you
[__] has beat me to the punch of
having a shoe and he's teamed up
k-swiss deeply bitter about this only
because he beat me man he did it amazing
mad kudos to Gary I'm actually really
proud of him he's such a good dude
but damn it I am very angry with myself
over not getting a shoe faster so I am
completely mortified mad kudos to Gary
but I I legitimately like I'm being
funny about it now I am not pleased with
myself but I don't label myself so just
because I failed does not make me a
failure so that is where I think you're
really falling down is when you put that
label on yourself and especially if you
repeat it to yourself man that is really
really dangerous so you know me I'm a
big believer do and believe that which
moves you towards your goals so beating
yourself up constantly constantly
labeling yourself a failure like that
just doesn't serve you so I wouldn't do
that and I think that's really the
bigger part of this give yourself a
period of time where you're gonna feel
badly about it and then move on so if
that period of time for you is an hour
then it's an hour and then move on and
start looking at what do I need to do to
actually execute against that and that's
really my tonic so if this is something
that I care enough about to put the
energy behind then get out there and do
it and on the shoe thing like just being
honest it was always meant to be a fun
thing for me it was never very high in
my priority list so the truth is I'm
just not allocating enough time and
energy to making that come true so there
you have it when you're honest with
yourself about why you're in that
position and don't make excuses and then
the other is if it really is important
to you move it up and start acting on it
really hardcore so the thing that I care
about right now the thing that is just
red-hot on my priority list is getting
that first comic out into the space oh
my god the lean in let me share
something with you we're in talks with
my absolute favorite comic writer on the
[__] planet to do a comic for us do
you know what a big deal that would be
for us I'm just over the [__] moon
about that many a slip between cup and
lip as they say so I know that this
could fall apart in the negotiation but
the the fact that I'm having this
conversation I am elated
so yeah literally over the moon on that
one and then building the studio out
making con
now that's focused on media movies TV
shows all that good stuff like we're
doing that we're taking those steps so
that's an example of when something is
important to me I just [__] execute
so executing is your tonic execute
execute execute and since I brought it
up if if and only if you are a fan of
movies TV shows comic books books video
games go right now and subscribe to what
it's almost certainly gonna be called
impact Theory studios on YouTube but you
could do a search for the video that we
did on Blade Runner so if you do a
search for impact Theory Blade Runner
and then go to channels you'll find it
immediately subscribe to that again only
if you're a fan of that stuff it isn't
it you're not gonna get stuff like this
so go check that out alright next
question is from Allen Burrell a salhan
birdlace on YouTube what's the best way
to highlight to your partner that you
are spending too much time online okay
so this let's make this broader what's
the best way to highlight to your
partner that you have a critical stance
on anything that they're doing and to me
and this is something that my wife has I
like to think come to appreciate about
me but used to drive her [__] nuts
and that is I wait for the perfect
opportunity I'm waiting for that moment
where the person's guard is down where
they're really receptive to feedback and
the reason I do that man if if you give
somebody the right message at the wrong
time they will resist it they will get
defensive they may be hurt by something
that you don't intend to be hurtful then
they shut down they're not gonna take
your message and I see people [__] that
up all the time and it look it's
something that I still mess up and
there's times where I just really want
to get it out and so I just say it I
blurted it out I say it when it's right
for me but not right for that person and
invariably that ends up being the wrong
answer so don't do that the whole idea
is to wait for that moment where that
person is really gonna be able to take
on what you're saying and be open to
making those behavior changes so that is
first and foremost so you're looking for
that opportunity now you want to say it
also in a way that's constructive you
don't want to be judgmental you don't
want them to you know be hurt by what
you're saying
that's almost always a bad strategy not
always always though if I'm completely
honest but it's almost always a bad
strategy now the reason that my wife
hates it when I'm looking for that
opportunity is often times I I'm not
rushing to make sure that this behavior
changes I want to make sure that it
actually does change because I think
you're less likely to get it changed
quickly by rushing it I know that's
super counterintuitive that's usually
the case and then I'm gonna say it in a
way that they can really hear whenever
possible use a muscle on muscle strategy
which is highlight something
authentically that that person is doing
well and then get to the thing that you
think is less advantageous if they agree
with me that they should only do and
believe that which moves them towards
their goals and I'm probably gonna bring
that up so let's say that it was my wife
I would do something like this right at
that perfect moment where she's really
gonna be receptive I'll say hey
something that like I know what your
goal is you know whatever it is and I
would state that and I from my
perspective and obviously this is
something that you need to look at from
your own perspective but from my
perspective it seems like the amount of
time that you're spending online is
counterproductive to what you're really
trying to accomplish so look I don't
have a you know a dog in the fight so
that really just comes down to whether
when you look at that you agree but I
know sometimes you can get clarity from
somebody else's perspective and that's
what I see so I mean that's that's
obviously generic I it would get more
and more specific if I was really
dealing with this with my wife and I'm
gonna introduce nuance wherever humanly
possible but she's gonna feel my
compassion she's gonna feel me
addressing her goals and what she's
trying to accomplish not doing it from
my perspective I'm not trying to change
her behavior because it's what I want
I'm trying to change her behavior
because it's she has a stated goal and
she's moving away from that and that
really is how I would judge her behavior
by the way so unless it was damaging the
relationship in which case you know we
would have an agreed-upon goal there and
I would just say here's the goal that we
agreed on here's how I think it's
impacting that and because it you know
if this is a relationship thing then I
would interject how it makes me feel now
feelings are very very very subjective
and I would acknowledge that going in
alright next question is from Julie Anne
spelled very uniquely by the way
Facebook how do you convince somebody of
your idea concept Wow
so a that is
really contingent on what my
relationship is to them so if my idea
concept is in a business setting then I
work backwards from the goal so what is
our stated goal what are we trying to
accomplish here's why I think well first
of all here is my concept and I would
lay it out in the most emotionally
engaging way if you can engage people's
emotions get them excited about it
that's key if I can show how they're
gonna be a hero by doing it that's
really important and here's where people
lock up all the time people are people
and so they're gonna have their own
perspective their own emotional response
they want it to be their idea and here
is the secret that I use and I hope
nobody from the team is paying attention
that's a joke they all know I do this
but I'm always trying to find ways to
make it somebody else's idea I want them
to take ownership if there's any way for
you and look it is you will lose in that
moment I totally get it
in that moment by giving away your
brilliant idea and letting somebody else
run with it definitively like because
some percentage of the time they really
do think it was their idea and they
totally run with it and you'd like in
that scenario you have given away your
idea but what I've found is while I may
lose something minor and at one instance
over the long run people realize that
I'm bringing these ideas that I'm not
greedy about it that I want to share
credit that I want to engage other
people that I want them to be able to
take emotional ownership of it as well
that is just huge huge huge that way I'm
not fighting a battle because oftentimes
the battle that you're fighting is the
silent one it's the thing that they're
not saying which is that they really
wanted something to be their idea or
they had an idea and they want to see it
move forward so as much as I can to make
it a team thing to help other people be
a hero when it works like that is so big
I really really encourage that and then
make sure your idea is good and then
honestly Ray Dalio shout out to my boy
chase like his whole thing about you he
doesn't use these words I haven't read
the book yet despite chases her Amy but
his the concept is that you earn
credibility with people over time by
being right quite frankly so you need to
back the right horse enough times that
people go wow you really do have a lot
of credibility now that doesn't need to
have been your original idea but you
need to identify the right answer faster
than other people and over time
you're gonna have the credibility so
when you present an idea whether yours
or somebody else's that people go you
know what like so many times have ended
up being right so even though I don't
see it right in this moment I'm gonna
get behind this alright question from
Jumaane from Facebook when you're
starting your own business how do you
not get pulled by other thoughts and
opinions about your bit about what your
business should offer or operate so this
it's interesting so I create Alexa
content daily by the way if you guys
have an echo dot the Amazon echo and any
shape or form if you haven't subscribed
be sure to do that drop my name into
Amazon and you can add the skill and
this is something that I was just
talking today about on that which is how
do you get the confidence to really be
yourself and this came from a Joseph
Campbell quote where said the the joy of
a lifetime is being who you really are
that that's a paraphrase and I said not
only is this a great joy but it's one of
the hardest things you're ever gonna do
and whether that's business or just in
your personal life what you have to do
is establish confidence and the
confidence in yourself is gonna come
from competence so you have to really
actually get good at something that's
something not a lot of people talk about
when when you say you want to be
yourself like that comes from having the
conviction of really being a excited
about who you are and who you're
becoming most importantly so having a
vision that's thrilling to you and then
also having earned credibility with
yourself and you earn credibility in two
ways by actually being good at something
and being able to perform so that
believing what you're doing with your
business is actually a value add to
people having that clarity of vision
having thought a lot about it and
watching yourself having executed on
pieces of that over time so that you
really have the confidence that is
actually going to work that's massive
and then the other way that you gain
credibility with yourself is just by
doing it by doing the hard things by
saying you're gonna do something and
then following up on it so once you have
that credibility with yourself and the
confidence with yourself that you know
you're gonna be able to do it and you
believe that it really does add value to
other people on this something that
people actually want then it's like
you're not gonna be swayed
now however having said that I want
people's ideas I want them to tell me
what they think and my whole thing is if
something's a good idea
it can withstand criticism if it's not a
good idea it's gonna buckle and great
because it wasn't a good idea it should
buckle so man if people are willing to
give me their advice I'm gonna listen to
it all but based on what I said at the
beginning of this answer I'm not just
gonna go with it because it's their
opinion or they feel more strongly it's
going to be because I really look at it
and say either this helps me towards my
goal or it doesn't if it does help me
then I would adopt it
whether it's my idea or not and if it
doesn't help me I discard it no matter
how emphatic they are all right next
question is from Tina Samoan this is on
Facebook how does one find their purpose
and what advice do you have for someone
who is starting completely over before I
answer that take a sip here alright so
first of all I think it's awesome that
you're starting over that is something
that a lot of times people are really
afraid to do I think it's incredible and
whether you're starting over because you
weren't enjoying what you were doing you
felt like you failed catastrophically or
you just really want a new challenge
either of those are great and if you can
reframe all of that and move into what
you're doing whether you've failed and
learned whether you just learned and
want something new whatever the case may
be there's knowledge from that arena
that you're gonna be able to apply and I
find that people that have the freshest
thinking or people that are coming from
totally outside the box so that's
actually really really advantageous so
now here's how you develop a passion it
starts as a minor area of interest you
gain areas of interest by encountering a
lot of stuff so if you haven't countered
a lot of things in your life go out
there and encounter stuff go sailing go
take a dance class go study neuroscience
like whatever it is just encounter a
whole bunch of very broad diverse things
from that you're gonna get sparks of
interest like oh I actually found that
interesting I want to learn more dive
deep through engagement not through
pondering through engagement you're
going to realize whether something is
going to turn into an area of
fascination so as you go deeper into it
you're gonna either become fascinated or
you're not if you're not fascinated move
on if you are fascinated then that's an
area where you're gonna ask yourself one
very simple question do I want to become
the best in the world at
that thing if you do if you want to
become truly extraordinary in that thing
then go down the path of gaining mastery
now the reason I think that it's wise to
ask that question going in is when you
frame it up I'm gonna become the best in
the world at this immediately people
understand the amount of time energy and
weight that it would take to become
truly great at that thing and I don't
think that passion can happen unless
you're becoming truly great at that
thing that's part of passion I don't
think people are deeply passionate about
something that they really suck at and
I'll give you an example I love video
games I absolutely love playing
first-person shooters I learn a lot from
them I get a lot out of them
I really just intrinsically enjoy the
time it has both that sense of eating a
cake because it's just fun in the moment
and it I pull from it life lessons
business lessons I practice getting out
of the sympathetic nervous system into
the parasympathetic nervous system it's
literally gamified so I'm getting better
I have points I can you know have my
improvement turned into metrics it's all
of it I really really enjoy but I won't
say that I'm deeply passionate about it
I'm just not that good at it so it's one
of those things if I really wanted to
develop a deep passion for video video
games and put it at the center of my
life that then I would set down that
path of really practicing now this is
like this is the most important thing
that passion will do for you which is
it's gonna pull you through boredom it's
gonna pull you through the hard times
and that's why it's really got to be
something that you just are prepared to
become great at because when you're
prepared to become great there's just
these insane moments of boredom
repetition and all of that and if you
have this burgeoning passion coming out
of that that's what's going to give you
the energy to get through it so it's
this symbiotic relationship between a
developing passion and how hard it is to
actually really get great at something
so the things you get great at need to
be something that is this developing
passion so there you have it that's how
you do it and that's why you do it
alright this question is from Phroso
Mehra new on YouTube when your home life
is less than desirable it's not where
you want to be living but you're trying
to break out how do you not let the
chaos around you affect your vision and
drive so this is a framing question so
what you want to do and this this Tony
Robbins asked this question I think it's
absolutely brilliant
how is the worst thing that ever
happened to me the best thing that ever
happened to me so in your circumstance
how is being in a chaotic home life the
best thing ever now I'll give you one
example off the top of my head and this
is exactly why I play first-person
shooters can you learn to stay calm in
the chaos because my friend I have the
chills if you can do that it will serve
you so well in every single area of your
life in a relationship in business if
you want to be an athlete if you want to
play games like what ever it is that you
do one of the things that you're gonna
have to become great at is letting all
of the noise drift away into nothing and
getting into laser focus on that thing
you're working on now when I give advice
like that to people they think well how
do I practice the amazing news is the
best thing that has ever happened to you
is that you have a built-in way to do
that your home life is mass chaos so now
you get a chance to practice I have the
chills you get a chance to practice
every day tuning out the chaos and
getting laser focused on something
that's framing now there are other ways
but that one is so powerful that I will
end it there focus on that it is
practice practice every day thank god
you're living in this chaotic
environment man congratulations all
right next one Jeremy Thompson face book
is there a process you use to determine
if an idea or product idea is legit
don't go off this one because I can tell
them to need to come back like
determining does it fit a need how
feasible it is to produce and kind of
part two of this question do you need
experience in the industry to truly have
a chance ok I'll answer the last part
first because it's the easiest you
absolutely do not need experience in the
industry to have a chance in fact that
naivete the beginner often times is how
people bring these really fresh ideas
look at the industry as a whole totally
differently
bringing surprising answers challenge
assumptions it is almost always somebody
from outside the industry that really
disrupts the entrenched thinking so that
can really work to your advantage now
you're also at a disadvantage by being
the newbie that you don't know a lot of
the things that other people know so
you're gonna have to go hardcore to
learn
and you're gonna have to be really
[__] excited to keep learning enough
to really develop skill which you
there's just no way around you're gonna
need so while being a neophyte serves
you it also hurts you you're gonna have
to develop those skills alright is there
a process that I use to determine if a
product or idea is legit yes I use it
and I ask myself am I actually getting
benefit from this so for instance I'm on
the board of a company called mo Deus
health they make a weight loss device
that may also at least the variation on
the theme help with anxiety and
depression they had me at hello from an
interest perspective but I told them
look I'm coming into this as a total
[__] skeptic I remain skeptical by the
way but the only way that I'm gonna get
the answer is by engaging with it and
using it so I used the product as some
of you may have seen me posting content
where I just [__] wearing it because
I'm trying to figure out if it's real
so yeah use it make your decision based
on that there's just absolutely no
substitute for that if it speaks to a
demo that isn't you then go out and do
market research have other people that
are in the demo that you know and trust
use the product and tell you if it
delivers value get it out to as many
people as you can get as much broad
feedback as you can in the demo that is
meant to speak to you now that's it just
hands on alright question from Brian
Jenkins on YouTube hi Tom shot up from
Seattle what is up hometown homie I have
a question how do you go about teaching
people exceptional customer service
which you talked about how would you
handle them if they can't understand it
okay so first of all if they can't
understand it and you don't figure that
out in the hiring process shame on you
so I would be looking at that coming in
are they a deeply empathetic and
compassionate person that's just huge
huge huge in the hiring process and then
also make sure that it's core to your
company hopefully to really take care of
the customer to be people centric and
this is the most important thing and
they've so funny I was in alive I was
like hey everybody thank you so much
this community is the most important
thing in my life and then I stopped I
was like that's actually not true my
wife is the most important oh and by the
way my team comes before you as well but
that's the [__] truth and if you want
somebody that
is really great at customer service one
they need to feel you taking care of
them first and foremost they need to
know that as the team behind this
company the people really doing it that
its employee first so that's going to
help them lower their defenses that's
gonna help them feel good and safe in
your company once they have that feeling
if you hired well and they truly are
empathetic and compassionate then it's
about putting training materials
together to make sure that they actually
know the answers so that they can really
be great and then the final note empower
them to make problems go away there's
nothing more frustrating for them or for
your consumer if they don't have some
kind of budget to solve problems so back
at Quest we used to say hey you've got
200 bucks if you can if you can solve
their problem for 200 bucks you don't
need to talk to anybody just solve the
problem if it's more than that then okay
get somebody involved but having that
latitude to know whoa like I can make
somebody's problem go away up to 200
bucks now people are abusive and
everybody that calls in is basically a
free two hundred but give away that's
bad for business
but when you've got somebody that can
really read this situation to figure it
out and by the way I would rather err on
the side of giving them the latitude to
be very expensive and make mistakes and
work with them to you know be more
discerning but I would way rather err on
that side than be stingy and they're not
able to solve people's problems so
that's that's a big thing empower them
alright this question is from Kaz Daniel
on YouTube how do you attract the right
team before you have the financial
backing to reward the best team for the
job
I have such passion but no money and
need a team to build with me okay so
first of all equity is gonna be your
best friend and all of this you're gonna
literally give people ownership and make
them feel the weight of their
contributions to the company and then
also you need to be really good at
building a team which means you need to
have a very strong vision very clear a
track record of success or at least that
as you guys are going you make them feel
empowered that their ideas are heard
that they can really contribute to the
company if you come in with a dictator
mentality your vision isn't exciting
you're not able to build the team you're
not giving equity like it's just never
gonna work so yeah those are the things
there you go alright next question is
from Mike Pinkett on YouTube
okay I didn't win the contest how do I
get to come meet you be on the show whoa
those are very different questions the
easiest way to meet me is to go to an
event that I'm gonna be speaking at so I
do a fair amount of speaking throughout
the year I stay and answer questions as
long as there are questions to be
answered so that is really an easy way
to meet me so keep an eye on my Facebook
page where I announce the events and I'm
going to be speaking at and then the
best way to get on the show is there's
it's three things one have a very
powerful and empowering mindset to be
able to articulate that mindset and
three be so ungodly talented that we
can't help but have you on the show and
that's where like you just have to do
something you've got to do something
[__] incredible because I've got to
be willing to write that intro for you
and that's just the truth man I've got
to do a crazy amount of research on you
and that's got to be worth while
researching you has got to improve my
life so that's a big thing so there you
have it that's how you actually get on
the show
question from Rui Rui Mac re-read can I
can I say RiRi Mac that's more fun to
say it's probably right I give them by
how it's spelled but I'm gonna say
reread this from Facebook if I have a
product ready for health and fitness
software okay and I'm looking to launch
the platform how would you best raise
the funds necessary for operation costs
investors crowdfunding VCS
okay so here's the bad news the easiest
way to raise money is to not need it if
you're gonna go into a VC with another
app another platform let me just tell
you right now if you don't have traction
they're not going to invest in you so if
you haven't either done it in the past
done something extraordinary where
they're like whoa this guy's a sure bet
or showing that my platform is getting
traction getting someone outside of your
family and friends to invest in you is
virtually impossible so you've got to
get the traction how do you get that by
being better than other people by
building something better than better
than other people and if you need a
technical co-founder to actually make
this thing give them equity give them a
lot of equity be equal partners split at
5149 if you have to but like that that's
just what you have to do you have to
create something that people actually
want to spend their money on that they
think they're going to get a return on
the investment and then you've also got
to be good at pitching so
that's the truth of that matter oh
there's so much scrolling okay question
from Avril Sweeney on Facebook who are
the best people to socialize your idea I
don't know what that means next question
this is from a very hard name Abdul
Rahman Abdul Rahman [__] Abdul Rahman
[__] how can we standardize innovation
and keep it creative like writing for
instance oh is this as an individual
okay I'm gonna assume that this is an
individual how do we standardize I don't
ha standardized innovation feels a bit
like an oxymoron but if you want to read
about people that have systematized
innovation read oh god what's it called
creativity Inc which is about Pixar
amazing book about how they've
systematized creativity I think that's
great
and then there's 3m has some amazing
stuff about how they've systematized
creativity and I think the company's
called Idealab I don't think that's
right there's another one shame on me
for not being able to get it out of my
memory I'll think about that but those
first two will get you started they'll
do a way better job of talking about how
to systematize innovation but you really
have to bake it into the culture you
have to reward people if they fail
intelligently if they learn from their
failures if they fail quickly and move
on if there are always open to ideas if
they're not dogmatic if they're not
egotistical if they really welcome ideas
from a broad set of people and you need
to reward that you can't be beat people
up when they fail another person he
doesn't speak a lot but the head of
Google X whose name is here's a weird
name oh man you know when you can feel
something tickling your brain like this
guy's tickling my brain anybody oh god
no it's not it's really gonna bother me
Astro teller there it is
Astro teller I'm very proud of myself
right now well done tom bill you for
those of you that want to know what my
internal dialogue is like I just
externalize that bad boy for you I beat
myself up when I can't remember
reward myself lavishly when I can so
Astro teller I don't know how much
you're gonna find online hopefully
there's some because more than anyone
I've ever spoke to he blew me away with
how he systematized his innovation and
it's a lot of the things that I was just
saying make sure that there's always a
place for people who failed on a project
that you can move them to a new project
so that they don't feel like oh my god
if I don't make this like win if this
doesn't win I'm gonna you know get
kicked out of the company I'm gonna get
fired like that kind of panic does not
create innovation it creates safe
thinking so you really have to create an
environment that rewards that kind of
thing so if you're just you alone as a
person then you need to reward yourself
lavishly emotionally for trying as long
as that try is something that is was
very sincere and you're not just rushing
to failure that's very very important
and then that you learn from all of your
failures okay question from Tyler Wall
YouTube long time watcher second time
caller thank you what kind of rewards do
you implement in your life for higher
level thinking and action taking how
about punishment for the opposite so wow
you literally just witness it a lot of
my stuff is is verbal and neurochemical
because I really really really want to
be a certain kind of person and I want
to be proud of that I get a massive
neurochemical cascade that has happened
over years of this the little micro
rewards and punishments for acting in
accordance with that person with having
seen how becoming more capable version
of myself has real tangible results in
the real world both being able to help
other people and financially enrich my
life like those are just incredibly
incredibly valuable things for me and
I've just seen how real that is so when
I reward myself and punish myself which
are just verbalizations sorry there it's
more usually silent but like really
internalizing that either I mess
something up or I did something well
telling other people like being willing
to tell people like I was saying earlier
in this episode about Gary Vee beating
me to having his own shoe like I'm just
absolutely mortified by that and I tell
people and I say it out loud and I think
about it and so I don't let myself off
the hook easily when I miss deadlines I
don't let myself
off the hook easily and then when I do
something well I reinforce that and I
tell my wife usually every now and then
I'll admit I do pat myself on the back
in front of the team full disclosure
but that's part of my reward system so
you have to be really careful with that
so you don't seem like an arrogant prick
or to self-congratulatory
in my mind though I'm very self
congratulatory when I do something well
as a balance we all have to walk that
fine line okay question from our boy
Joshua Martel this kid is like og as og
comes he is the man behind Tom Bilyeu
classics so just mad love to Joshua
Martel hey Tom I did it David Goggins
day for myself yesterday I want to know
more about what that is that sounds
amazing to see what my limits were I set
out to do a nine hour workout day at a
place I've been training at nine hours
[__] hell I'm impressed but my body
and mental push stopped around six hours
[__] yeah dude that's amazing six hours
is [__] ravenous well played that's
not the right word at all but you
understand what I mean that's incredible
I am pretty sure I know how to take this
failure as a success it is a success
[__] sick a 6-hour workout is fully
legit like would David Goggins punish
himself relentlessly for that yes he
would be mortified yes but dude that's
amazing so understanding how to be
inspired by someone like David Goggins
but give yourself like the winds man
that's [__] incredible
so I'm impressed last part but what
would you say on how to reframe well
there you have it you already heard my
answer to how to refrain from there dude
[__] six hours is a crazy wind that's
super impressive well done and so now
the next time is when you do one of
those days can you push beyond that
right can you do six hours and one
minute like that's a win if you set out
to do like seven hours where you get six
hours thirty that's still [__] badass
dude you're making progress
so yeah [__] yeah dude like that's the
kind of thing you need to be very
careful because if you go into a six
hours and see it as a failure like it's
okay to go hey I said I was gonna do
nine I only did six I'm bummed out about
that but but I [__] smashed a six
hour workout
incredible and by the way that's all the
things that I would be saying in my own
head so there you have it alright
question from Demian Damacy YouTube hi
Tom how can you cultivate patience when
you were working towards a goal and
don't want to get lost to the anxiety
and obsessive thoughts I'm gonna let you
down Damian
I so hate patience
I have zero patient am I wearing
brick-by-brick I'm gonna look oh yes I'm
so glad I have this shirt on today dude
because when I put this on which I'd
legend to me they couldn't remember if
that was this morning or not but when I
put this shirt on I thought this is my
version of patience I don't do [__]
slowly I'm laying those bricks [__]
as fast as humanly possible I show up
every day thinking I'm gonna play today
like it all has to happen today right
now today I'm gonna move everything
forward that I can but I'm gonna do it
brick by brick and I get it there is
going to be a limit to the number of
bricks that I'm gonna be able to lay
today that's just true and by the way
another thing that we have going in
comics and this is a great example of
you have to be deaf enough to recognize
that moment where okay I'm not gonna be
able to do it today so working with were
negotiating with that's the truth we're
negotiating with my favorite comic book
artist a writer writer of all time to
create a comic beyond thrilled the other
thing is there is a celebrity that I
think has a really fascinating worldview
that I happened to know quite well and
were at the very beginning of
negotiating doing something with that
person as a comic as well totally two
separate things but both of them I've
had to be like push as hard as I can and
then there are times where I realize
okay I can't like the an email that I
just sent today the one email that
hopefully I will send this week and it
was realizing that I had to just say yes
to them scheduling something like ten
days from now which I absolutely [__]
hate and so look I recognize that
patience is gonna move me towards my
goal in that moment rather than going
can't you do something earlier which
will make me come across as like a pushy
[__] which is gonna make them not
want to work
me but at the same time dude I am I am
not trying to cultivate patience in
myself I'm trying to cultivate a
willingness and an ability to go all out
everyday forever to play like that every
day because it's all built brick by
brick alright next question is from
Kavita Shri camp Kavita Shri camp hello
I have two questions my goal is to get
to a 10-hour workday and right now I am
at around six hour work day and they get
physically exhausted after that how do I
push past it and my second question is
how to divide my day between learning
and practicing the skill I learn okay
don't scroll off
so first the 6-hour thing we are talking
this is an almost certainly an ATP
problem either you hate what you're
doing you're saying you're physically
exhausted so it's probably ATP but there
might be a mental component so make sure
that you're very excited about what you
do you believe in it and that it's
worthwhile for you to put the energy so
beyond that like generating energy on a
physical level is real this isn't like
you can just muscle past that right
that'll get you part of the way but the
other part of the way is you have to
make sure that your body is efficient at
generating ATP
now the way that that works one
prioritize sleep I'm in a really weird
sleep cycle right now and I don't know
if I should punch mo Deus health in the
face for this and that they have
possibly just improved my sleep which
for most people is really beneficial to
me it actually annoys me and I joke
about it a lot but I'm actually really
annoyed about it so I'm sleeping like
seven hours a night which for me is
[__] weird I normally get five or six
and so the fact that I'm sleeping seven
routinely is crazy I don't know what to
make of that but I prioritize sleep so I
don't set an alarm I'm getting seven
hours right now it is what it [__] is
and if that's what my body needs and
that's what I'm gonna give it so that's
part one part two is exercise just the
way the body works your systems
including the mitochondria is just gonna
atrophy it's gonna get bad at producing
energy and so work your ass off which is
why Monday through Friday the for the
first thing I do in the day I don't read
I don't do my important things I don't
meditate I
[__] workout that is like the
baseline thing that just has to happen
for you to cognitively optimize for you
to generate the kind of energy that you
need on a physiological level okay the
next part of the question how do I push
past it no sorry
second part how do I divide my day
between learning and practicing the
skill I learn okay so I allocate a
certain portion of my day first thing in
the morning after working out to
learning so I'm reading I'm trying to
educate myself I'm watching YouTube
videos like anything I can to gain
deeper knowledge in an area right now
the two areas that I'm focused on our
mindset and microbiome those two are
like the most important things in my
life
so that's what I read I'm reading the
long walk to freedom by Nelson Mandela
dear God read that book and then I am
reading a whole slew of things on the
microbiome and then the rest of my day
so starting at around 9:30 is when the
team starts showing up starting at about
that time just the the day starts
getting carried away and I am
inadvertently quite frankly using
everything that I'm learning but I make
huge demands of myself very
intentionally to when I learned
something take a note on it and then try
to put it into use that day and every
day thereafter obviously you can't use
every skill that you have every day but
like if you when you learn it really
make an effort to push on that that's
really really important so do that
alright a question from Amin Khan this
comes from Facebook I want to know how I
can improve my communication skills when
talking in a large group I find that
when I'm having long conversations were
around a lot of people for some time I
feel anxious or not centered great
description I usually take a deep breath
and self-talk helps but helps there but
our do I have any other tips techniques
strategies that I can try ok so you've
already identified the two that are most
important which are one breathe from
your diaphragm taking those deep breaths
triggers the parasympathetic nervous
system which is going to get you out of
that fight-or-flight the elevated heart
rate the shallow breathing that cycle of
anxiety and then sorry go back and then
to you
you want to use self-talk those are
really really important so if you're
doing those two things it's already a
huge part of it
the second is really assessing your
microbiome and seeing if you are in a
state of dysbiosis and the the easiest
way to ask that is if you're overweight
the chances of you having dysbiosis is a
fancy way of saying that your microbiome
is in disarray so you have either the
right bacteria in the wrong place or
just a whole host of the wrong bacteria
but serotonin which is one of the things
that helps you feel centered and feel
good 95% of that stored in the gut
so when you have dysbiosis and your
microbiome is in total disarray chances
are that you're gonna have a disruption
of that neural chemical and you're not
gonna feel as centered and grounded and
at ease as you might otherwise feel so I
would really look at that that's a big
thing and then also some of this is just
how long have you been doing the deep
breathing and the positive self-talk if
it's relatively new then it's just gonna
take time and and you've gotta unwind
that by creating new patterns and then
immersion therapy worked a lot for me I
actually went through a phase like you
where merely speaking in front of people
in a living room my own family in a
living room caused massive anxiety and
that was like that was my sort of rock
bottom moment with anxiety where I was
like Jesus Christ like I've got to
figure this out this is absolute madness
and so that was when I started reading
obsessively about that and there's a
bunch of books on my list that deal with
the brain and a lot of and my list being
at impact Theory calm Tom's reading list
and the reason I started reading about a
lot of that stuff was because I was just
I was like where does this go like does
this end with me in a fetal position in
my room like not able to leave like it
was so crazy and so really having to put
myself in situations like that forcing
myself to breathe positive self-talk
unwind the anxiety and just talk in
front of people as much as humanly
possible doing lives used to give me
more anxiety than you can imagine but I
started doing them like three years ago
on periscope so it's like you just do it
and do it and do it and practice all the
breathing techniques and all of that and
do it
more and more and more practice practice
practice alright question from Lucca
mazaya YouTube what book would you gift
a homeless person who's willing to learn
mindset by Carol Dweck that's the book
I'd gift anybody man that's so
intriguing I'm tempted to dive deeper
into that but I'll stop there mindset
all right
question from beau Monte a on Facebook
you've talked a lot about ideas in equal
ideas out as I listen to more books
podcasts I feel a tension between
digging into new stuff versus really
dwelling on what the most recent piece
of content has to teach me do you feel
this tension what is the process of
reading a book look like for you so I
don't feel that tension the reason is
that I read and swarms so I read like
I've been reading about mindset for
years and so all the books either
reinforce or give me a new perspective
but it's all in a very similar universe
so even reading about the brain and
neurology all that feeds back into
mindset so even all of those books all
count and that's warm so you really
begin to go deep deep deep even though
you're reading a lot of stuff broad
authors different perspectives all of
that you're going deep on a subject and
then microbiome which is an obsession
for me right now
I'm very much reading a broad number of
authors and all that but again going
deep deep deep on that subject so I
don't do the dilettante approach where
it's like I'm just going across a whole
lot of broad topics and just getting a
little bit a little bit a little bit
even though over the course of my life
because I read so much I have read a
very broad and diverse set of things and
I think that that breadth over time is
also very important because it gives you
a more powerful context for the things
that you're going deep on so that I
think is very very beneficial but I
would just pick one or two things that
you really want to become great at and
go just insanely deep on those topics
all right question from Yadira Rhea's
Ruiz one of those how can you remain
authentic in a in a judgmental and
people-pleasing workplace
well you're gonna have to buck the trend
so one I want people to understand that
being authentic doesn't mean always
externalizing exactly what you think and
feel it does mean not bullshitting it
does mean not lying but let me tell you
one of the strategies that I employ is
silence
non-judgmental like questioning like
asking people just more to grow to
understand them and if you want to see a
world-class example of this read long
walk to freedom by Nelson Mandela he
talks about that and he talks about how
he would encounter people that had very
different ideology from him and he would
learn about it first like he wanted to
understand like the the white people in
my country like how do they think and
and I think that a large part of his
power came from understanding who he
perceived to be the enemy understanding
other people that were maybe on the same
side as what he was fighting for but had
a radically different way of thinking
and being the person that came and
brought people together because he led
with trying to really understand it now
that didn't mean that he didn't have an
aggressive standpoint this dude was
aggressive about the world that he
wanted to build but he always led with
really trying to understand people and
he opened his own worldview to shifting
as he got information that he felt was
powerful towards getting him where he
ultimately wanted to go but at the same
time like had this really really strong
set of convictions and beliefs just a
really world-class example and he walks
through times where he was silent he
walks through times where he had to
stand up and say something it's just
really really incredible example of
somebody who was very very deft but yeah
I I would say be silent when that's the
thing that is going to serve you and
then don't be afraid to speak up even if
that means you're gonna get fired and so
one really practical tip about how to be
authentic
make sure you have six months of savings
in your bank account that that's just
good advice for anybody and yes that
means you're gonna have to live like a
popper for a year two years three years
however the [__] long it takes to save
up that money but save up that money
your life will
change emotionally when you have six
months saved up you won't feel the need
to people please unnecessarily look I
love when people get along so I'm always
trying to facilitate that find ways
where we can all win but at the end of
the day I'm not afraid to speak my mind
because I don't have a fear of the of
the consequences I'm just always
thinking about what's my goal all right
question from Jeremy Soliday this comes
from YouTube when you're going through
the darkness and it's intentional when
is a good time for one to take advantage
of branding and social media to share my
story well I think you and I define
darkness in a different way because I
don't necessarily see the correlation
between going through the darkness and
your social media strategy so here's
here's what I would say personally I
wouldn't try to build a personal brand
if I wasn't world-class at something
that that's just me like that is what I
enjoy is going out into the wilderness
acquiring skills that have a tremendous
value and then bring them back and say
hey here's what I've learned use them if
you want part of that is I have deep
confidence in what I'm saying and part
of the reason I wouldn't want to do it
is because speaking on something that
I'm not confident about really gives me
anxiety like if you want to know
something that triggers my [__]
anxiety it's when I'm I don't know what
I'm talking about and I still have to
present myself like I do I don't do that
literally I will stop speaking mid
[__] sentence when I feel that
kicking because that's just not my stick
so yeah I can't encourage people enough
like I would be out there for a
friends-and-family kind of thing but I
wouldn't go hard to build my social
following I had been an entrepreneur for
12 or 13 years before I created my
social accounts so yeah that's that's my
advice get great first alright question
from insight junkie YouTube use of here
I'm just coming out of a bad breakup
with my girlfriend of one year where I
found out everything she told me was a
lie
ouch and she had been cheating on me for
a year double ouch how do I move on okay
well that's easy
your
brutally painful what you went through
man and I feel your pain the way that
you move on is this take total
responsibility for it the fact that she
cheated is your bad it's totally your
fault now I know how controversial that
is I know how much that pisses people
off the reason that I say that is now
you're in control now you can ask
yourself a way more empowering question
what could I have done differently to
get a different result could I have
chosen better maybe me and maybe that's
it maybe there's nothing else you could
have done better or maybe not only did
you choose poorly maybe there is a whole
host of things you could have done
differently maybe you could have been
more emotionally open maybe you could
have communicated better maybe you could
have listened to your gut and seen maybe
you knew at some point something's not
right here
and you didn't trust it you didn't
confront her and you didn't talk about
it maybe didn't create a safe space for
her to talk maybe she felt like she
needed something from you that she
wasn't able to guess she didn't feel
like she could communicate it to you or
maybe she did communicate it to you and
you didn't listen or you weren't hearing
it or you weren't paying attention who
the [__] knows I don't know your
circumstance but in there somewhere is
an answer that empowers you and let me
tell you about an answer that this
empowers you the answer that disempowers
you is that you were a victim you were
not it you may have been a victim but
you were not you don't have to choose to
be or sorry you may have been victimized
you don't have to continue to view
yourself as a victim like that is
incredibly incredibly important you
don't have to adopt the mentality of a
victim that's totally a choice
so moving on is saying cool I'm gonna
learn from this this is something really
powerful I am so glad that this happened
to me you can't imagine how often I do
that by the way something that people
think is absolute insanity that I would
look at as a positive and I look at it
as a positive because I'm going to
extract the value from that circumstance
I'm not gonna dwell on the negative
things I'm gonna figure out what I can
learn and all of that puts me in a much
more empowered state of mind and allows
me to move forward because if you don't
move on you're just gonna be continued
to be victimized by her the people in
the future are not her so don't cling on
to it all right this is from Patrick
Rivera on Facebook you've drilled the
point you were emotionally bankrupt when
you made it and were strictly living for
profitability were you operating before
that moment knowing you were emotionally
wrecked and going at it anyway yes do we
get more detail that that's the truth
yes I knew I kept doing it some fool or
I will certainly was behaved
like a fool back then and it was taking
energy away from me but I had promised
myself that I would get rich and while I
was making and I I never use the words
made it I was making more money than I'd
ever made before but there are levels to
this [__] so that was like I didn't feel
like I had made it yet so I was like I
just need to keep going just a little
bit longer a little bit longer and I
hadn't yet realized that I could make
the demand that I make it doing
something that I love that I believe in
that I'm passionate about I was just
taking what I thought was the surest
path to money once I stopped doing that
started taking the surest path to
emotional well-being that's when
everything changed
question from Naomi Hernandez on
Facebook how do you think there is
something objectively do you think there
is something objectively wrong when
people chase money as their end goal
even after understanding the fact that
they pursue it merely because of the way
that it makes them feel neurochemically
not at all I don't have any beef with
people chasing money it certainly wasn't
the thing for me and the vast majority
of people that I meet that are really
just chasing money it's it's gonna be an
empty pursuit because money is inert
money doesn't do anything intrinsically
money is the great facilitator money
lets you do things so for instance if
somebody came to me and said look all I
really care about is money then I would
say okay well what do you plan to do
with the money and my gut instinct is
once they run through a few sort of fun
things like I'm gonna buy a big house
I'm gonna buy a fancy car I'm gonna wear
jewelry all that and that's fun that's
awesome like no need to feel bad about
that whatsoever especially if that's
something that was always denied you and
it's just like you really are excited by
any want to do it Rab [__] go after it
but after you get past that stuff like
you find that most people there's really
something beautiful they want to do they
want to get back to their family they
want to build schools in Africa they
want to do whatever like there's the
outpouring of amazing [__] that people
talk about when you get past that okay I
know you're gonna give money to your
family you're gonna invest money like
but then what do you do after that and
then you hear
really cool [__] all I'm saying is if
you focus on that now if you put that at
the center not only of why you're
creating the wealth but how you create
the wealth if there's a way not
everything is tied but if there's a way
to put it at the center for both of
those reasons dude in your times of
trouble it's just gonna be so much
easier because you're really excited
about it
but if it's just a scorecard then hey go
for it man when I look at like athletes
at the end of the day they've got two
things going for them winning games and
being great that's it those are the
things that drive them on the field now
some of its economic as well but those
are like the primary drivers usually for
somebody that is an athlete is they want
to be great at something and they want
to win and so if you just look at at the
end of the day the money that I'm gonna
make is my points it's my tally yeah
that's awesome if that gets you motivate
and keeps you going up and no beef with
that alright question from blass Vegas
Carrasco nice this is on Facebook would
love insight on taking what I do as a
martial arts coach and impact more
people and not have it necessarily be
connected to martial arts I want to move
beyond the dojo and into the world thank
you
go look at Frost a hobby he does an
amazing job of creating YouTube content
around helping other people learn how to
fight and think and all that stuff and
so while it's mostly still connected to
martial arts as the vehicle to explain
it let's really get to the mindset thing
so like I often talk about business is
my way of explaining mindset it's still
ultimately
mindset so I think that would allow you
to get out of the dojo and in the world
alright question from Cory G Roda on
Facebook what's up by the way Cory I see
you here a lot thank you man
assuming you're a dude by the way yes
that may be not true Tom have you
considered a top ten most impactful
moments at impact Theory similar to the
top ten on inside quest yes and as we
wrap up our first year we will be doing
something exactly like that counting
down the top things from the year the
greatest news of all time is that this
company was literally founded on January
4th
so for us every year is really looking
back on that years worth of content it's
gonna be a lot of fun every year to do
that and so we'll count down the top
lessons from the year or so look for
that every year all right question from
Todd banks on Facebook what are your
thoughts on growing your community by
having a monthly fan guest on after
impact this would be an incentive to
tune in an automatic share bomb within
the community plus the winter social
community it's actually a variation of
that I will say it's [__] genius
the only reason I'll say a variation is
committing to someone being live for an
hour would take a lot of vetting so we'd
have to think about that but a variation
on that theme like having you guys write
something in submit videos things like
that that we get feature testimonials
reviews that kind of stuff that is
genius and when we do that dear Todd
banks remember that you were the one
that said that we should think that's
incredible Chase is gonna write that
down
super super genius Thank You Man for the
suggestion I love that
and then probably have time for one more
this is some from song baron
kabir egde song baron coverage what's
the key to build a great relationship
with anyone if you want to be
interesting the interests Ted so let's
start with that really diving into who
that person is meeting them with
compassion and empathy is always a
starting point so whomever that person
is really coming to understand them
really meeting them where they are don't
preach or proselytize don't get them to
try to think like you think like really
figure out who they are really show them
your authentic interest and
understanding them like that will really
make people want to connect with you
that is a big thing all right so we're
gonna sneak in one more here question
from Patrick gora on YouTube hey Tom you
mentioned that you grind during work
days and try to spend time with your
wife on weekends do you think that this
attitude would be good to follow if I'd
like to become pro in sport well so
first of all I I would be doing everyone
a disservice if I didn't acknowledge
that for a very very very long time
we'll call it roughly a decade
I worked so much and was so fiendishly
focused on the acquisition of skills and
part of the only reason that I stopped
doing that was because it was beginning
to really strain my relationship with my
wife but dude I worked a lot and gained
a lot of skills and those skills have
served me insanely well in my life so if
you wanted to be a pro my honest answer
is shut everything else out of your life
and go insanely deep in that and only
take breaks when you emotionally you
absolutely need to and there's an
awesome quote I'm forgetting hoots by
right now but it goes something like
this every time that you're not working
there is someone that's putting in that
work and when the two of you meet they
will win because they're putting in that
work like there's just no substitute for
becoming great becoming capable of the
extraordinary being able to out perform
people if you want more on that read
relentless by Tim Grover listen to talks
by Kobe Bryant listen to our own we
pulled a clip from my boy Jay Williams
former NBA player current announcer on
yeah I think he does noon but certainly
a commentator and he talked about
meeting Kobe and how Kobe's work ethic
really inspired him and that he went
into the gym he was he was on the
Chicago Bulls he was about to play Kobe
Bryant and he goes into the gym before
the game and starts shooting and
realizes that Kobe comes out and then
Kobe ends up staying long after he stops
and so he goes to Kobe after the game
where Kobe scored like 40 points in them
and they win the game and he said the
Kobe like why did you practice so long
in the morning and Kobe said I needed
you to know that I was willing to
outwork you that's what it's about boys
and girls that's what it's about
like imagine that showing up on the
court knowing I'm just I'm going to
outwork this guy he's going to leave
before I leave and then I'm going to
beat him on the in the game as well like
that is it set the bar ridiculously high
and then surpass all expectations it is
the only way to greatness so if you want
to be a pro you got to be great that's
my answer
all right guys that's all the time that
we have one last shout out if you are a
of movies comic books TV shows books
video games and you want to see what it
means to look at that from the
perspective that you've come to know me
for empowerment mindset like how I
extract knowledge from all of these
things we have started a new YouTube
channel it is impact Theory studios go
check it out subscribe right now we're a
little hard to find because we have very
few subscribers at this point but we're
putting out content we've already
dropped one on Bladerunner 2049 so if
you do a search for impact theory and
just select channels or do impact Theory
Bladerunner will come up subscribe to
that channel only if you're a fan of
that stuff though because I want to be
very clear we're gonna go [__] deep
on that stuff so I only want fans of
that there but go there it's looking at
the world of entertainment through the
lens of empowerment we're gonna be
publishing our own content we're working
on our comics right now we're gonna be
doing TV shows movies all that stuff
that is why we exist so but again only
the fans if you're a fan head there now
and subscribe you'd be doing me a huge
favor we're gonna be growing that
subscriber base alright that's it for
now thank you guys for everything that
you do for the questions for all of it
for the engagement dude I am insanely
grateful and if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe here and until next
time my friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]